# 以赛亚伯林书信集

I AM GLOOMILY contemplating a life of grinding hackery for the next thirty years or so.

One significant development is his discovery in 1949 of the Dictaphone; from them on, the majority of his letter are dictaedand increasingly take  on the somewhat loose and boggy charracteristic of his conversation.

I dislike almost equally (as you would if you were here) the new Marxism preached by sincere and muddleheaded people here: an attempt to produce a kind of amalgam out of Hegel, the young Hegelians, the early (humanistic') Marx with a lot of talk about alienation and the teleology deduced from a correct perception of the true nature of man into which then are also heaped the concept of the lonely crowd, escape from freedom, Riesman, 266 Fromm, 267 Merleau-Ponty, 268 Sartre, Miss Arendt and all. It is idle no doubt for me to point out that alienation in Hegel is something very odd - God is alienated from the universe by self-individuation, whatever that may mean - and this cannot be quite the same as a lot of gloomy Jews in Chicago who do not feel integrated properly into their society or their time, and one begins to understand at last what the climate was like in 1840, and how wonderful it was to be a follower even of Comte, let alone Mill.

Sir, 

I have, of course, no quarrel with the thesis of your correspondent, Mr R. H. Hilton, that an increase in East-West trade is desirable.

My private life is wonderfully uneventful. I teach, or I write on two books; I feel elderly and responsible, and every act against this is a kind of escapade unsuited to my years.

the mixture of secularists Protestant sentimentality, tame public school “leftism”, and appalling priggishness created an air in which I suffocated much more quickly than the wildest excesses of Conservatism or Communism.

en lecture and lecture, interviewing graduate students, and occasionally with much excitement taking the train to London for the purpose of delivering a lecture to a learned society, carefully prepared beforehand, too long, read through at breathless and breakneck pace to a small and elderly audience of learned persons, all of whom, or nearly all, do this themselves.

 

I must begin by saying how happy I was to get your letter; I meant to reply to it before but neither mood nor general circumstances were propitious

感谢

provincial：乡下人

willy-nilly, would succumb 犹豫就会败北