# 小普林尼书信集

钱与教育

but in view of the prevailing habits of the day and the laws of the country which judge a man's income to be of primary importance, perhaps after all it is something which should not be omitted. Certainly if one thinks of the children of the marriage, and subsequent generations, the question of money must be taken into account as a factor influencing our choice. 

找老师 

Now his studies must be carried farther afield, and we must look for a tutor in Latin rhetoric whose school shall combine a strict training along with good manners and, above all, moral standards; for, as our boy happens to be endowed with striking physical beauty amongst his natural gifts, at this dangerous time of life he needs more than a teacher. A quardian and mentor must be found. 

老普林尼

You may wonder how such a busy man was able to complete so many volumes, many of them involving detailed study, and wonder still more when you learn that up to a certain age he practised at the bar, that he died at the age of fifty-five, and throughout the intervening years his time was much taken up with the important offices he held and his friendship with the Emperors. But he combined a penetrating intellect with amazing powers of concentration and the capacity to manage with the minimum of sleep. 

友情

I am well myself, if 'well' is the right word for living in such a state of worry and suspense, expecting and fearing to hear any moment that a dear friend has met with one of the accidents which can befall mankind. 

夸奖

I gave you my views on each section of your book as I finished reading it; now you shall have my general opinion of the work as a whole. It is a noble achievement, powerful and penetrating: its language is dignified, varied and well chosen, the style pure and rich in metaphor, the comprehensive scale has a breadth which will win you recognition. You are swept on by the force of genius as well as of indignation, and these have reinforced each other; genius has added dignity and grandeur to your indignation, and this in its turn has given your genius power and fury. 

自辩庸俗

I admit that I do often write verse which is far from serious, for I also listen to comedy, watch farces, read lyric poetry, and appreciate Sotadic2 verse; there are besides times when I laugh, make jokes, and enjoy my fun, in fact I can sum up all these innocent relaxations in a word: 'l am human.'

This is a small matter, but likely to go far.

翻译

You ask me what course of study I think you should follow during your present prolonged holiday. The most useful thing, which is always being suggested, is to translate Greek into Latin and Latin into Greek. This kind of exercise develops in one a precision and richness of vocabulary, a wide range of metaphor, and power of exposition, and, moreover, imitation of the best models leads to a like aptitude for original composition. At the same time, any point which might have been overlooked by a reader cannot escape the eye of a translator. All this cultivates perception and critical sense.

You may wonder what has provoked me to write like this. Someone recently - but I can tell you better when we meet, or better still, not at all, for I am afraid that if I offer any hostile criticism or even tell you what I dislike, it will conflict with this principle to which l attach such importance. The man and his character shall not be told; to expose him would point no moral, but not to do so is a true sign of generosity. 

it is better to excel in one thing than do several moderately well, but moderate skill in several things is better if you lack ability to excel in one.