# 欧美经典散文

Gift

IT is said that the world is in a state of bankruptcy, that the world owes the world more than the world can pay, and ought to go into chancery, and be sold. 

自由人崇拜

"For countless ages the hot nebula whirled aimlessly through space. At length it began to take shape , the central mass threw off planets , the planets cooled , boiling seas and burning mountains heaved and tossed, from black masses of cloud hot sheets of rain deluged the barely solid crust. And now the first germ of life grew in the depths of the ocean, and devel-oped rapidly in the fructifying warmth into vast forest trees , huge ferns springing from the damp mould , sea monsters breeding , fighting , devouring , and passing away . And from the monsters , as the play unfolded itself , Man was born , with the power of thought , the knowledge of good and evil , and the cruel thirst for worship . And Man saw that all is passing in this mad ,monstrous world , that all is struggling to snatch , at any cost , a few brief moments of life be-fore Death's inexorable decree. And Man said: There is a hidden purpose, could we but fath-om it , and the purpose is good ; for we must reverence something , and in the visible world there is nothing worthy of reverence.'

神学概论

There is in Theosophy no formalism, no narrowness, all its conceptions are wide and lofty, and, therefore, satisfying. Unlike Christianity it does not depend on written testimony; Theosophy is philosophical in its nature. And Theosophists believe and assert that "There is no religion higher than Truth". We do not say, with the Christians: "Believe as we do, or you will be damned". We ask you to join us in the search for Truth, which is higher, far higher than empty faith. Faith is a word often on the lips of a Christian; but if we look into this so-called faith, what do we find?-in nine cases out of ten nothing but credulity. To the man of stagnant mind belief is easy. And to all of us, of course, it is more comfortable to believe what we are told, than it is to search for what is true. 

We do not grieve and lament that we did not happen to be in time to see the grand mask and pageant of human life going on in all that period; though we are mortified at being obliged to quit our stand before the rest of the procession passes. 

## 独立宣言

And accordingly all experience has shown, that mankind are more disposed to suffer, when evils are sufferable, that to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed.